---
title:  'Interactive Multi-Dimension Modulation for Image Restoration'  #  Paper title, covered by ''
teser: CSRNet.png
type:   paper
pro_type: Image Restoration
layout: post  #  Do not change this
date:   2021-07-24 11:59:59 +0800  # paper pub data, only change year and month according to this format
author: Jingwen He, Chao Dong, Liu Yihao, Yu Qiao  # authors information
venue:  IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE (PAMI), 2021 #Where it be, ICCV and CVPR remove IEEE Conference on,
year:   2021  # paper year, number
month:  July  # paper month, full name
projectPage: None
supplemental : None
data: None  # If has data, post data link here, otherwise None
code: https://github.com/hejingwenhejingwen/AdaFM  # If has data, post code link here, otherwise None
paperLink: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1912.05293
---

Interactive image restoration aims to generate restored images by adjusting a controlling coefficient which determines the restoration level. Previous works are restricted in modulating image with a single coefficient. However, real images always contain multiple types of degradation, which cannot be well determined by one coefficient. This paper presents a new problem setup, called multi-dimension (MD) modulation, which aims at modulating output effects across multiple degradation types and levels. Compared with the previous single-dimension (SD) modulation, the MD setup to handle multiple degradations adaptively and relief data unbalancing problem in different degradation types. We also propose a deep architecture - CResMD with newly introduced controllable residual connections. Specifically, we add a controlling variable on the conventional residual connection to allow a weighted summation of input and residual. The values of these weights are generated by another condition network. We further propose a new data sampling strategy based on beta distribution together with a simple loss reweighting approach to balance different degradation types and levels. With corrupted image and degradation information as inputs, the network can output the corresponding restored image. By tweaking the condition vector, users can control the output effects in MD space at test time.

