---
title:  'Rethinking Learning-based Demosaicing, Denoising, and Super-Resolution Pipeline'  #  Paper title, covered by ''
teser: TENet++.png
type:   paper
pro_type: Image Demosaicing, Image Denoising, Image Super-resolution
layout: post  #  Do not change this
date:   2022-09-23 11:59:59 +0800  # paper pub data, only change year and month according to this format
author: Guocheng Qian, Yuanhao Wang, Jinjin Gu, Chao Dong, Wolfgang Heidrich1 , Bernard Ghanem1 , Jimmy S. Ren
venue:   IEEE International Conference on Computational Photography (ICCP), 2022 #Where it be, ICCV and CVPR remove IEEE Conference on,
year:   2022  # paper year, number
month:  September # paper month, full name
projectPage: None  # If has project page, link here, otherwise None
supplemental : None
data: None  # If has data, post data link here, otherwise None
code: None  # If has data, post code link here, otherwise None
paperLink: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9887682 # post paper pdf link here
---

Imaging is usually a mixture problem of incomplete color sampling, noise degradation, and limited resolution. This mixture
problem is typically solved by a sequential solution that applies demosaicing (DM), denoising (DN), and super-resolution (SR)
sequentially in a fixed and predefined pipeline (execution order of tasks), DM→DN→SR. The most recent work on image processing
focuses on developing more sophisticated architectures to achieve higher image quality. Little attention has been paid to the design of
the pipeline, and it is still not clear how significant the pipeline is to image quality. In this work, we comprehensively study the effects of
pipelines on the mixture problem of learning-based DN, DM, and SR, in both sequential and joint solutions. On the one hand, in
sequential solutions, we find that the pipeline has a non-trivial effect on the resulted image quality. Our suggested pipeline
DN→SR→DM yields consistently better performance than other sequential pipelines in various experimental settings and benchmarks.
On the other hand, in joint solutions, we propose an end-to-end Trinity Pixel Enhancement NETwork (TENet) that achieves the
state-of-the-art performance for the mixture problem. We further present a novel and simple method that can integrate a certain
pipeline into a given end-to-end network by providing intermediate supervision using a detachable head. Extensive experiments show
that an end-to-end network with the proposed pipeline can attain only a consistent but insignificant improvement. 