---
title:  'DeSRA: Detect and Delete the Artifacts of GAN-based Real-World Super-Resolution Models'  #  Paper title, covered by ''
teser: DeSRA.png
type:   paper
pro_type: Image Super-Resolution
layout: post  #  Do not change this
date:   2022-10-21 11:59:59 +0800  # paper pub data, only change year and month according to this format
author:  Liangbin Xie,Xintao Wang,Xiangyu Chen,Gen Li,Ying Shan,Jiantao Zhou,Chao Dong# authors information
venue:  International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), 2023 #Where it be, ICCV and CVPR remove IEEE Conference on,
year:   2023  # paper year, number
month:  May # paper month, full name
projectPage: None  # If has project page, link here, otherwise None
supplemental : None
data: None  # If has data, post data link here, otherwise None
code: None  # If has data, post code link here, otherwise None
paperLink: None # post paper pdf link here
---
Image super-resolution (SR) with generative adversarial networks (GAN) has achieved great success in restoring realistic details. However, it
is notorious that GAN-based SR models will inevitably produce unpleasant and undesirable artifacts, especially in practical scenarios. Previous works typically suppress artifacts with an extra loss penalty in the training phase. They only
work for in-distribution artifact types generated
during training. When applied in real-world scenarios, we observe that those improved methods
still generate obviously annoying artifacts during
inference. In this paper, we analyze the cause
and characteristics of the GAN artifacts produced
in unseen test data without ground-truths. We
then develop a novel method, namely, DeSRA,
to Detect and then “Delete” those SR Artifacts
in practice. Specifically, we propose to measure
a relative local variance distance from MSE-SR
results and GAN-SR results, and locate the problematic areas based on the above distance and
semantic-aware thresholds. After detecting the
artifact regions, we develop a finetune procedure
to improve GAN-based SR models with a few
samples, so that they can deal with similar types
of artifacts in more unseen real data. Equipped
with our DeSRA, we can successfully eliminate
artifacts from inference and improve the ability of
SR models to be applied in real-world scenarios.
