---
title:  'RepSR: Training Efficient VGG-style Super-Resolution Networks with Structural Re-Parameterization and Batch Normalization'  #  Paper title, covered by ''
teser: repsr.png
type:   paper
pro_type: Image Super-Resolution
layout: post  #  Do not change this
date:   2022-05-03 11:59:59 +0800  # paper pub data, only change year and month according to this format
author: Xintao Wang, Chao Dong, Ying Shan # authors information
venue:  Arxiv, 2022 #Where it be, ICCV and CVPR remove IEEE Conference on,
year:   2022  # paper year, number
month:  May # paper month, full name
projectPage: None  # If has project page, link here, otherwise None
supplemental : None
data: None  # If has data, post data link here, otherwise None
code: https://github.com/TencentARC/RepSR  # If has data, post code link here, otherwise None
paperLink: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2205.05671.pdf # post paper pdf link here
---

This paper explores training efficient VGG-style super-resolution (SR) networks with the structural re-parameterization technique. The general pipeline of re-parameterization is to train networks with multi-branch topology first, and then merge them into standard 3x3 convolutions for efficient inference. In this work, we revisit those primary designs and investigate essential components for re-parameterizing SR networks. First of all, we find that batch normalization (BN) is important to bring training non-linearity and improve the final performance. However, BN is typically ignored in SR, as it usually degrades the performance and introduces unpleasant artifacts. We carefully analyze the cause of BN issue and then propose a straightforward yet effective solution. In particular, we first train SR networks with mini-batch statistics as usual, and then switch to using population statistics at the later training period. While we have successfully re-introduced BN into SR, we further design a new re-parameterizable block tailored for SR, namely RepSR. It consists of a clean residual path and two expand-and-squeeze convolution paths with the modified BN. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our simple RepSR is capable of achieving superior performance to previous SR re-parameterization methods among different model sizes. In addition, our RepSR can achieve a better trade-off between performance and actual running time (throughput) than previous SR methods.

